Insertion statements
check data.sql files







query answers
-------------


1. All registered user who has played a particular content in a specified date range

1. registered
2. played particular content
3. specified date range.


select userdata.userid,userdata.age,userdata.status,userdata.place,userdata.gender from userdata,contentplaydata where userdata.userid=contentplaydata.userid AND contentplaydata.theday between 1 and 10 AND contentplaydata.themonth='dec' AND contentplaydata.thecontentid=15 AND userdata.status LIKE 'registered';




2. 
All anonymous users who has session duration greater than x mins


1. anonymous users
2. session duration greater than 15 mins

select userdata.userid,userdata.age,userdata.status,userdata.place,userdata.gender from userdata,sessiondata where userdata.userid=sessiondata.userid AND sessiondata.themins>15 



3. 
Anonymous users between age 18 to 40, located in India or China or USA, who has done at least 10 content views

1. anonymous users yes
2. between age 18 and 40 yes
3. located in india or china or usa yes 
4. count of content view is atleast 10	 yes

select userdata.userid from userdata where   (userdata.age >= 18 and userdata.age<=40) and userdata.userid in (
 select userdata.userid  from userdata,contentviewdata where (userdata.userid=contentviewdata.userid) and 
  (userdata.status LIKE 'anonymous' ) AND (userdata.place like 'india' OR userdata.place like 'china' or userdata.place like 'usa') group by userdata.userid having count(*)>=10) 


4. All subscribed users who has not done any content playback action in past 1 month

1. subscribed users 
2. not done any content playback action


select * from userdata where userdata.status like 'subscribed' and userdata.userid not in (select distinct contentplaydata.userid from contentplaydata)


5.    Users who did more than 5 content view for a particular content but has not played the content

these are the users who have viewed a particular  content more than 5 times.


select * from userdata where  userdata.userid not in (select distinct contentplaydata.userid from contentplaydata) and  userdata.userid in (
 select userdata.userid  from userdata,contentviewdata where (userdata.userid=contentviewdata.userid) and contentviewdata.thecontentid=109 
    group by userdata.userid having count(*)>5) 


EXPECTED OUTPUT
--------------


1.  Estimated Reach for the above queries with Total Count which is further split into count per age groups ( 18-30, 30-40,40-50,50-60), per gender type, user status ( Anonymous, Registered, Subscribers ), % split per country


check usersegmentation_sql files, 

less than 1 second

4. Do consider the below use cases while putting together the solution:


-        How will you validate if a user belongs to a segment or not ?


Since the database schema has been designed in such a fashion to easily validate if the user belongs to a segment, this validation can be easily done by means of 
a query like

if the user id is given and we have to see if he belongs to a segment say age 18-60 

we check if there is a record with the given user id say 609 and the segment info 30-40. if such a record exists, then the user is in that segment.

select count(*) from userdata where userdata.age<=40 and userdata.age>=60 and userdata.userid=18382;





-        How will you identify correlation patterns between different cohorts ? Eg: Users within the age group of 18-20 has higher affinity to playback comedy content.

1.we can do a join on the userdata and contentplaydata tables on userid 

2. you can group by range-age and genre and get the count. See which age group has affinity towards comedy


select concat(7 * round(userdata.age / 7), '-', 7 * round(userdata.age / 7) + 6) as `range`,dummydata1.thegenre,count(*)
from    userdata INNER JOIN  dummydata1   on userdata.userid = dummydata1.userid group by 1,dummydata1.thegenre order by userdata.age


-        How will you predict if a user has a higher probability of falling into a particular segment ?  


if you find that male customers have higher affinity  towards action movies, the probability of a new customer falling into the segment of action movies is pretty high





















 




